- [Instructor] Now, throughout this course
we haven't really been doing much error handling
with our SQL code.
We've just been catching it
and converting it to a very generic runtime exception,
printing the stack trace and throwing it out.
And that's essentially
how many people do JDBC code exceptions
and I want to talk through some very common patterns
that you could leverage instead
that I think will make your code much cleaner.
Now, first of all, why?
So as you can probably tell at this point,
error handling in JDBC can be a nightmare,
and if you don't manage it, it can get even worse.
Everything is a SQLException,
which I strongly dislike
because I can't really do any flow control
when everything's the same.
One thing to note is that it's not something to ignore.
So we kind of ignored it in our examples,
and that was just because we didn't really want to deal
with it at that time.
But in the real world, you need to deal with this,
and I'm going to give you a couple strategies.
The first strategy that you can deal with
is a common unpacking routine.
Now, in this case, you would catch a SQLException
and you would unpack it into your own named exception
based on the error code.
You would log those error codes
or you would add them to the common message
or maybe both.
You would create named exceptions
for the most common issues,
the ones that we would see most often in your code use case,
and everything else you just throw
to a generic exception.
Now, the benefit of this is you can build a hierarchy.
So all of your data access code
can actually throw that common exception,
and then you can build named exceptions off
of that that are much more specific,
so if there was a chance to do error control
in your application, you could do so
because not everything is the same exception.
It's no longer everybody is a SQLException.
You have some control of it.
A pattern that I personally prefer more
is to use runtime exceptions.
Now, in this course, we just used generic RTE
but in reality, I create my own hierarchy
of exceptions in my data applications,
and leverage those
but all of them instead of extending exception,
extend runtime exception.
Now, the reason I like to do this
is because everything is converted to a runtime exception,
I don't have to litter it across my APIs
because I don't have to declare that I'm throwing it,
which means I don't have to catch it in the higher layers.
By allowing it to bubble up,
I can only deal with it at the top of my application stack
and since most of time when I write Java,
I'm writing web applications,
and specifically web services,
that's when I want to catch it,
and I want to convert it into a result code
or a status code out of my REST API.
Now, when you convert your exception to an RTE,
that's the time that you want to log it,
and you want to log it with all of the details
of the SQLException.
Now, the biggest benefit here,
at least from my perspective,
is you have no leaky APIs.
So even in the previous model
where we were actually controlling the exception name,
most of the time, people don't control the application
at that level.
They just bubble it up.
You then still have all these throws declarations
on all of your method signatures
and then it gets really ugly
from an API perspective.
Runtime exceptions avoid that
because no one's going to deal with the exception anyway.
Just let it bubble up,
and you catch it at the top of your application stack.
Now, you can do a simple leak
where you leak that SQLException up
from your application layers.
The problem with this is now at the very top of your code,
you're dealing with SQLExceptions,
when in reality, you may have swapped out databases
and you're still carrying that baggage
because you have to keep your APIs consistent.
When you leak exceptions,
each method signature must declare
that it is serving this exception out
or else it has to handle it.
And since you're leaking it,
it's going to be declared all the way up to stack,
even when you're not actually doing data access code.
Now, at first, this may seem easy.
Just put a throws, throws, throws
or better yet, just throw exception.
The reality is is that's a nightmare to manage.
You don't want to do that.
Please don't allow your exceptions to leak
unless you truly are going to handle them
at a higher layer,
which is the beauty of runtime exceptions.
Nobody has to know about them
until we handle them at the top of the layer.
That's my soapbox
and that's just how I deal with exceptions.
But at the very least,
unpack them in your data access
and convert them to something that they can be useful
outside the data access layer itself.